#summary Installation and Upgrade Instructions

= Installation Package =

If you plan to develop  or examine Volatility's internals, choose the source code or Pyinstaller executable. Both options will give you access to the Python source files. You must already have a Python interpreter and dependent libraries installed. To just be up and running in a matter of seconds, and you're on a Windows analysis system, choose the standalone executable - it comes packaged with Python and the dependencies. The standalone executable is portable and can be run from USB drives or CDROMs. 

= Install Volatility = 

If you're using the standalone Windows executable, no installation is necessary - just run it from a command prompt. No dependencies are required, because they're already packaged inside the exe.

If you're using the Pyinstaller (Windows-only) executable, double click and follow through with the installation instructions (which basically consists of clicking Next a few times and then Finish). You must already have a working Python 2.6 or 2.7. Also see below for the dependency libraries. 

If you downloaded the zip or tar source code archive (Windows, Linux, OSX) there are two ways to "install" the code: 

1) Extract the archive and run setup.py. This will take care of copying files to the right locations on your disk. Running setup.py is only necessary if you want to have access to the Volatility namespace from other Python scripts (for example if you plan on [http://code.google.com/p/volatility/wiki/BasicUsage21#Using_Volatility_as_a_Library importing Volatility as a library]). Pros: easy use as a library. Cons: more difficult to upgrade or uninstall. 

2) Extract the archive to a directory of your choice. When you want to use Volatility just do python /path/to/directory/vol.py. This is a cleaner method since no files are ever moved outside of your chosen directory, which makes it easier to upgrade to new versions when they're released. Also, you can easily have multiple versions of Volatility installed at the same time, by just keeping them in separate directories (like /home/me/vol2.0 and /home/me/vol2.1). Pros: clean, easy to run multiple versions, easy to upgrade or uninstall. Cons: more difficult to use as a library. 

Regarding dependencies, for the most comprehensive plugin support, you should install the following libraries. Keep in mind this does not apply to the standalone Windows executable, because the dependent libraries are already included.

 * [http://code.google.com/p/distorm/ Distorm3] - Powerful Disassembler Library For x86/AMD64 
      * Dependent plugins
          * apihooks
          * callbacks
          * impscan
 * [http://code.google.com/p/yara-project/ Yara] - A malware identification and classification tool 
      * Dependent plugins
          * yarascan 
 * [https://www.dlitz.net/software/pycrypto/ PyCrypto] - The Python Cryptography Toolkit 
      * Dependent plugins
          * lsadump
          * hashdump
      * Note: this requires python-dev to build (unless you get pre-built binaries)
 * [http://www.pythonware.com/products/pil/ PIL] - Python Imaging Library 
      * Dependent plugins
          * screenshots

If you do not install these libraries, you may see a warning message to raise your awareness, but all plugins that do not rely on the missing libraries will still work properly. 

= Upgrade Volatility = 

If you used setup.py to install Volatility, the files will be placed in a few standard locations. For example:

{{{
$ sudo python setup.py install
....
byte-compiling /usr/local/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/volatility/fmtspec.py to fmtspec.pyc
byte-compiling /usr/local/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/volatility/utils.py to utils.pyc
running install_scripts
copying build/scripts-2.6/vol.py -> /usr/local/bin
changing mode of /usr/local/bin/vol.py to 755
running install_data
creating /usr/local/contrib/plugins
copying contrib/plugins/example.py -> /usr/local/contrib/plugins
copying contrib/plugins/psdispscan.py -> /usr/local/contrib/plugins
....
creating /usr/local/contrib/plugins/addrspaces
copying contrib/plugins/addrspaces/ewf.py -> /usr/local/contrib/plugins/addrspaces
copying contrib/plugins/addrspaces/ewf-python.py -> /usr/local/contrib/plugins/addrspaces
running install_egg_info
Writing /usr/local/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/volatility-2.1.egg-info
}}}

Unfortunately there is no uninstaller, and if you simply try to run setup.py for a new version of Volatility, you may end up with some mixed source files which will surely lead to trouble. So before you install a new version of Volatility, remove everything the previous setup.py created:

{{{
$ sudo rm -rf /usr/local/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/volatility
$ sudo rm `which vol.py`
$ sudo rm -rf /usr/local/contrib/plugins 
}}}

Now you can run the setup.py for your new Volatility version. As stated above, please remember setup.py is only necessary if you plan on importing Volatility as a library from other Python scripts. If you just want to use Volatility, no installation is necessary (just extract the archive and run vol.py inside). 